   Say to a blind man, you're free, open the door that was separating him from the world, Go, you are free, we tell him once more, 
and he does not go, he has remained motionless there in the middle of the road, he and the others, they are terrified, they do 
not know where to go, the fact is that there is no comparison between living in a rational labyrinth, which is, by definition, a 
mental asylum and venturing forth, without a guiding hand or a dog-leash, into the demented labyrinth of the city, where 
memory will serve no purpose, for it will merely be able to recall the images of places but not the paths whereby we might get there. 
   Standing in front of the building which is already ablaze from end to end, the blind inmates can feel the living waves of heat 
from the fire on their faces, they receive them as something which in a way protects them, just as the walls did before, prison 
and refuge at once. They stay together, pressed up against each other, like a flock, no one there wants to be the lost sheep, for 
they know that no shepherd will come looking for them. The fire gradually begins to die down, the moon casts its light once more, 
the blind inmates begin to feel uneasy, they cannot remain there, For all eternity, as one of them said. Someone asked if it was day 
or night, the reason for this incongruous curiosity soon became apparent, Who knows, they might bring us some food, perhaps 
there has been some confusion, some delay, it has happened before, But the soldiers are no longer here. That doesn't mean a 
thing, they might have gone away because they're no longer needed, I don't understand, For example, because there is no 
longer any danger of infection, Or because a cure has been found for our illness, That would be good, it really would, What are we 
going to do, I'm staying here until daybreak, And how will you know it is daybreak, By the sun, by the heat of the sun, And what 
if the sky is overcast, There is only a limited number of hours and then it must be day at some point. Exhausted, many of the blind 
had sat down on the ground, others, weaker still, simply collapsed into a heap, some had fainted, it is possible that the cool 
night air will restore consciousness, but we can be certain that when it is time to break camp, some of these unfortunates will 
not get up, they have resisted until now, they are like that marathon runner who dropped dead three metres from the finish line, 
when all is said and done, what is clear is that all lives end before their time. Also seated or stretched out on the ground were those 
blind inmates who are still awaiting the soldiers, or others instead of them, the Red Cross is one hypothesis, they might bring 
them food and the other basic comforts, for these people disenchantment will come a little later, that is the only difference. And 
if anyone here believed that a cure had been discovered for our blindness, this does not appear to have made him any more contented. 
[...] 
   Why did we become blind, I don't know, perhaps one day we'll find out, Do you want me to tell you what I think, Yes, do, I 
don't think we did go blind, I think we are blind, Blind but seeing, Blind people who can see, but do not see. 
   The doctor's wife got up and went to the window. She looked down at the street full of refuse, at the shouting, singing people. 
Then she lifted her head up to the sky and saw everything white, It is my turn, she thought. Fear made her quickly lower her eyes. 
The city was still there.

    - Jose Saramago, Blindness  
