   I'll never forget the strange change that came over us the next instant. Until  
that point, this whole thing about Madame had been, if not a joke exactly,  
very much a private thing we'd wanted to settle among ourselves. We hadn't  
thought much about how Madame herself, or anyone else, would come into  
it. What I mean is, until then, it had been a pretty light-hearted matter, with  
a bit of a dare element to it. And it wasn't even as though Madame did  
anything other than what we predicted she'd do: she just froze and waited for  
us to pass by. She didn't shriek, or even let out a gasp. But we were all so  
keenly tuned in to picking up her response, and that's probably why it had  
such an effect on us. As she came to a halt, I glanced quickly at her face–as  
did the others, I'm sure. And I can still see it now, the shudder she seemed to  
be suppressing, the real dread that one of us would accidentally brush  
against her. And though we just kept on walking, we all felt it; it was like we'd  
walked from the sun right into chilly shade. Ruth had been right: Madame  
was afraid of us. But she was afraid of us in the same way someone might be  
afraid of spiders. We hadn't been ready for that. It had never occurred to us to  
wonder how we would feel, being seen like that, being the spiders.  
[...]
   Thinking back now, I can see we were just at that age when we knew a few  
things about ourselves–about who we were, how we were different from our  
guardians, from the people outside–but hadn't yet understood what any of it  
meant. I'm sure somewhere in your childhood, you too had an experience like  
ours that day; similar if not in the actual details, then inside, in the feelings.  
Because it doesn't really matter how well your guardians try to prepare you:  
all the talks, videos, discussions, warnings, none of that can really bring it  
home. Not when you're eight years old, and you're all together in a place like  
Hailsham; when you've got guardians like the ones we had; when the  
gardeners and the delivery men joke and laugh with you and call you “sweetheart.”  
   All the same, some of it must go in somewhere. It must go in, because by the  
time a moment like that comes along, there's a part of you that's been  
waiting. Maybe from as early as when you're five or six, there's been a  
whisper going at the back of your head, saying: “One day, maybe not so long  
from now, you'll get to know how it feels.” So you're waiting, even if you don't  
quite know it, waiting for the moment when you realise that you really are  
different to them; that there are people out there, like Madame, who don't  
hate you or wish you any harm, but who nevertheless shudder at the very  
thought of you–of how you were brought into this world and why–and who  
dread the idea of your hand brushing against theirs. The first time you  
glimpse yourself through the eyes of a person like that, it's a cold moment.  
It's like walking past a mirror you've walked past every day of your life, and  
suddenly it shows you something else, something troubling and strange.  

        - Kazuo Ishiguro, Never let me go   
