   Then they’re outside, on the roof it seems, looking down on the city, but it isn’t any city she’s ever seen. It’s as if one huge bomb has fallen on it, 
it’s all in flames, everything burning at once — houses, streets, palaces, fountains and temples — exploding, bursting like fireworks. There’s no sound. 
It burns silently, as if in a picture—white, yellow, red and orange. No screams. No people in it; the people must be dead already. 
Beside her he flickers in the flickering light. 
   Nothing will be left of it, he says. A heap of stones, a few old words. It’s gone now, it’s erased. Nobody will remember. 
   But it was so beautiful! she says. Now it seems to her like a place she’s known; she’s known it very well, she’s known it like the back of her hand. 
In the sky three moons have risen. Zycron, she thinks. Beloved planet, land of my heart. Where once, long ago, I was happy. All gone now, all destroyed. 
She can’t bear to look at the flames. 
   Beautiful for some, he says. That’s always the problem.
   What went wrong? Who did this? 
   The old woman. 
   What? 
   L’histoire, cette vieille dame exaltée et menteuse. 
   He shines like tin. His eyes are vertical slits. He isn’t what she remembers. Everything that made him singular has been burned away. 
Never mind, he says. They’ll build it up again. They always do. 
   Now she’s afraid of him. You’ve changed so much, she says. 
   The situation was critical. We had to fight fire with fire. 
   You won, though. I know you won! 
   Nobody won. 
   Has she made a mistake? Surely there was news of victory. There was a parade, she says. I heard about it. There was a brass band.
   Look at me, he says.  
   But she can’t. She can’t focus on him, he won’t stay steady. He’s indeterminate, he wavers, like a candle flame but devoid of light. 
She can’t see his eyes. 
   He’s dead, of course. Of course he’s dead, because didn’t she get the telegram? But it’s only an invention, all of this. 
It’s only another dimension of space. Why then is there such desolation? He’s moving away now, and she can’t call after him, 
her throat won’t make a sound. Now he’s gone.She feels a choking pressure around the heart. 
No,no, no, no, says a voice inside her head. Tears are running down her face. 
This is when she wakes up really. 

        - Margaret Attwood, The blind assassin
